# API 

## What is Web API

API -> Application Programming Interface<br>
Web API is framework provided by Microsoft which can easily build HTTP services. It will provides an ideal platfrom for building RESTful applications on the .NET Framework

## Difference between ASP.NET Web API and WCF or Why to choose Web API over WCF

|Web API|WCF|
|---|---|
|Content negoitation|doesn't provide|
|RESTful services|SOAP-based services|
|Supports features like routing, model binding| does not support any mvc features |
|token based authentication|-|

## What is SOAP based services?

It mostly works with HTTP and RPC (Remote procedure call). It works with XML format

## Why to we need HTTP methods?

* GET — For returning resources
* POST — For creating a new resource
* PUT — For updating a resource
* PATCH — For updating a resource
* DELETE — For deleting a resource

## What is difference between GET and POST

||Get|Post|
|---|---|---|
|Parameter|by url (query string)| by object in Request body |
|Security|unsafe|Safe|
|Capacity|url length 2048 character|more then that|
|Limitation|only ASCII|ASCII, Decimal, Binary all types of data can be sent|


## What is difference between POST and put

Idempotent - If we run multiple times and still value is same <br>
Or if request and response are same <br>
Non-idempotent - If we run multiple times and value is changes<br> 
Or if request and response are not same<br>

||Create|Update||
|---|---|---|---|
|Idempotent|PUT (if id is controlled by client)|PUT|Client controlled|
|Non-Idempotent|POST (if id is generated by server)| x|Server controlled|

## What is difference between PUT and PATCH

||PUT|PATCH|
|---|---|---|
|Update| Full update | customized update |

*Request for put* <br>
http://localhost/Product/1001<br>
*Response*
```JSON
{
    "Name": "Amit",
    "Amount": 10000
}
```

*Request for patch* <br>
http://localhost/Product/1001 <br>
*Response*
```JSON
{
    "Name": "Amit",
}
```

## Response type for PDF file
Why should I use IHttpActionResult instead of HttpResponseMessage?
## Ihttpresponse and httpresponse

What exactly is OAuth (Open Authorization)?  

## API to API authentications

Why are the FromBody and FromUri attributes needed in ASP.NET Web API?  

Explain briefly CORS (Cross-Origin Resource Sharing)? 

 What's the difference between OpenID and OAuth?

  What is ASP.NET Web API OData?  

  Explain briefly OWIN (Open Web Interface for .NET) Self Hosting?  
